This is XShogi version 1.3
--------------------------

This program provides an XWindows interface to the Japanese Chess (Shogi)
playing program GNU Shogi.  You have to create "gnushogi" from GNU Shogi
(version 1.3).  Xshogi has been created by modifying XBoard 2.0 and XBoard 2.1
by Tim Mann.  Xshogi was originally written by Matthias Mutz
(mutz@fmi.uni-passau.de) but is now being maintained by me, Mike Vanier
(mvanier@bbb.caltech.edu).  I would like to thank Matthias for passing the
maintenance of this program over to me.

For changes since the last version please read the file NEWS.  The most
significant change is that xshogi has been merged into the gnushogi source
tree, and it is now very easy to configure and build both programs at the same
time.  In addition, support for the Internet Shogi Server has been dropped.
There are now much better ways to play Shogi over the internet (such as
JavaShogi), and the ISS support seemed to be only partial, so I decided (as
the new maintainer) to keep things simple and just remove ISS support
altogether.

For creating xshogi read the file INSTALL in the top-level gnushogi
directory.  

If you determine bugs, please save the game, and rerun xshogi with the
-debug True option. Report the bug to me.  By the way, gnushogi (the shogi
playing program used by xshogi) can produce a record of the game if you
#define LIST_ON_EXIT in the file `gnushogi/opts.h'.

In order to determine the options, try "xshogi -help".  A man page is also
included. 

You can give GNU Shogi more searching time by using the -tc option.  For
example, "xshogi -tc 15" allows GNU Shogi to think 15 minutes for 40 moves.

You can choose a western style piece set by invoking xshogi with -wps True.
This can also be set in your .Xdefaults file or .Xresources file.  See the
xshogi man page for more about X resources.

In case of trouble, comments or suggestions for improvements you may contact me.
Otherwise, enjoy the program :-)

Mike Vanier (mvanier@bbb.caltech.edu)

